Sveltekit tutorial (#6538)
Unleash/unleash: website/docs/feature-flag-tutorials/sveltekit/feature-flags-sveltekit.md

---

> title: How to Implement Feature Flags in Sveltekit using Unleash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How to Implement Feature Flags in SvelteKit
```

description: "How to use Unleash feature flags with Sveltekit."
---

Hello and welcome to another tutorial. This is about adding feature flags to an app made with [SvelteKit](https://kit.svelte.dev/) and [Unleash](https://www.getunleash.io/). We'll make a paired-down habits app to keep track of your new year's resolutions.

This is not meant to be a complete product, but enough to show you the different approaches to working with feature flags in a "fullstack" framework like Next.js or Sveltekit. The final code is available on GitHub in [this repo](https://github.com/alvinometric/unleash-sveltekit).

## Setup

Create a skeleton Sveltekit project named "habits".

```
npm create svelte@latest habits
```

> We'll need a few more dependencies, let's install them now so it's out of the way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll need a few more dependencies. You can install these in one command below:
```

```
npm i date-fns @unleash/proxy-client-svelte unleash-client
```

> ## Let's make a basic habits app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a basic habits app
```

import { writable } from "svelte/store";

export const habitStore = writable([
  {
    id: 1,
    name: "Walk 10k steps",
    completedDays: [],
  },
]);
```

Then, we'll create an `App.svelte` file for our main logic.

```svelte
<script>
  // src/lib/App.svelte
  import { format, addDays } from 'date-fns';
  import Habit from '$lib/Habit.svelte';
  import { habitStore } from '$lib/stores.js';
  import AddHabit from '../lib/AddHabit.svelte';
  let maxHabits = 2;

  // go back 5 days
  const dates = new Array(5).fill(0).map((_, i) => {
    let today = new Date();
    return addDays(today, -i);
  });
</script>

<AddHabit {maxHabits} />

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Habit</th>
      {#each dates as date}
        <th>{format(date, 'MMM do')}</th>
      {/each}
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    {#each $habitStore as habit}
      <Habit {habit} {dates} />
    {/each}
  </tbody>
</table>

```

Then, update the `+page.svelte` file (our index route) to include our app.

```svelte
<script>
  // src/routes/+page.svelte
  import App from '../lib/App.svelte';
</script>

<App />
```

And we finish the basic app with a component for each habit that be checked on and off.

> ```svelte

Author: It's the first comment in the file

<script>
  // src/lib/Habit.svelte
  import { habitStore } from '$lib/stores.js';
  import { format } from 'date-fns';

  export let habit;
  export let dates;

  function toggleDay(day) {
    let updatedDays = [...habit.completedDays];

    const index = updatedDays.indexOf(day);
    if (index !== -1) {
      updatedDays.splice(index, 1);
    } else {
      updatedDays.push(day);
    }

    habitStore.update((items) => {
      return items.map((item) => {
        if (item.id === habit.id) {
          return { ...item, completedDays: updatedDays };
        }
        return item;
      });
    });
  }
</script>

<tr>
  <td>{habit.name}</td>

  {#each dates as date}
    <td>
      <input
        type="checkbox"
        on:click={() => toggleDay(date)}
        checked={habit.completedDays.includes(date)}
      />
      {format(date, 'MMM do')}
    </td>
  {/each}
</tr>
```

Now we have a fully functioning Svelte app in all its glory! Essentially, it's a table with checkboxes.

> ![Pasted image 20240202174256.png](./20240202174256.png)

Reviewer 2: This image needs an update as described in my general review comment.

## Adding habits and premium features

> Now this is not a very user-friendly app. Let's add a few things:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have the basics of the app set up, but we could make it more user-friendly. Let's add some more functionality:
```

        return items;
      });

      // reset the form
      form.reset();
    }
  }
</script>

<dialog open={habitsFull}>
  <h2>❌ Maximum Habits Reached</h2>
  <p>You can only have up to {maxHabits} on the free tier. Purchase a premium version to unlock more.</p>
  <form method="dialog">
    <button>OK</button>
  </form>
</dialog>

<form on:submit|preventDefault={addHabit}>
  <input type="text" name="name" />
  <button type="submit"> Add new habit </button>
</form>
```

What's happening here? A few things:

- An input and a button to add new habits to the store, until an arbitrary limit is reached
- A `maxHabits` prop is used to determine that limit
- When this maximum limit is reached, a modal dialog opens
- We reset the form after submission to clear the input

<video
  width="600px"
  preload="metadata"
  autoplay
  loop
  title="A maximum number of habits on the free tier"
  src="/media/habits.mp4"
  controls> </video>

## Showing a different component based on the feature flag

On to the main topic, adding feature flags.

Go to your Unleash dashboard, and create new project (you're welcome to use the default project here).

> ![alt text](./proj.png)

Reviewer 2: Same here! The alt text appears to have been started but not finished?

Next, create a feature flag called `maxHabitsIncreased`.

> ![alt text](./feat.png)

Reviewer 2: And the same for this one.

```svelte
<script>
  // src/routes/+page.svelte
  import App from '../lib/App.svelte';
  import { FlagProvider } from '@unleash/proxy-client-svelte';

  const config = {
    url: 'https://eu.app.unleash-hosted.com/jdfkdjfkd/api/frontend', // Your Front-end API
    clientKey: '', // Front-end API token (or proxy client key)
    appName: 'habits'
  };
</script>

<FlagProvider {config}>
  <App />
</FlagProvider>
```

Note that I’m using the URL and API key directly in the code right now, but you’d want to put these in an env file.

Now that our SDK is setup, we can modify our `App.svelte` to set the value of the variable based on the feature flag.

```diff
+  import { useFlag } from '@unleash/proxy-client-svelte';
+  const maxHabitsIncreased = useFlag('maxHabitsIncreased');
+  let maxHabits = $maxHabitsIncreased ? 6 : 2;
-  lex maxHabits = 3;
```

## Conclusion

That's it, you have a Sveltekit app with fleature flags. More precisely, you've learned:

- How to make a habit tracking app with Sveltekit
- How to add feature flags and how to add them to a fullstack app
- The different approaches to feature flagging on a static vs SSR context

> Enjoy, see you soon.

Reviewer: I'd suggest removing this line for now and maybe we can replace it with pointing devs to a link to other useful docs in the future. Example:

Take a look at our [insert link] documentation for a deeper dive into advanced use cases with Sveltekit.
